---
layout: page
title: Research
permalink: /research/
order: 2
---

We are interested in the following research areas connected to the molecular
biology of cancer, and more broadly, to human development and disease. We aim to
develop novel computational tools, and provide biological insight using
large-scale datasets from high-throughput experiments.

<h3>Biological noise in disease development</h3>

The various molecular processes of a cell are coordinated by complex gene
regulatory networks. However, these processes are inherently noisy, and even
isogenic cell populations show variance in RNA and protein expression levels.
Increasing evidence shows that expression and splicing variance plays important
roles in disease development by leading to aberrant gene regulatory network
states. This variance is influenced by DNA sequence, histone modification
patterns, chromatin structure, or the binding affinity of transcription and
splicing factor binding sites, among other things.  We are developing methods to
characterize expression variance and its determinants, model the effect of
variance on gene regulatory networks, and characterize it in different cancer
types.

<h3>RNA-sequencing based diagnostic methods in cancer</h3>

DNA-sequencing based mutation, indel, CNV and structural variation detection is
a part of routine clinical diagnostics in many cases. However, mutations can
only exert an effect if they are expressed. Additionally, RNA-based sequencing
methods can provide useful information besides mutation status, including
allele/mutation specific expression or splicing patterns. We are working on
RNA-sequencing based analysis methods to improve initial cancer diagnosis,
disease subtype classification, and the selection of treatment options. We aim
to develop methods robust to experimental biases and technical limitations,
usable at the single patient level.

<h3>Bioinformatics and biostatistics support</h3>

We collaborate on multiple projects and provide bioinformatics and biostatistics
support for analyzing targeted Illumina panel sequencing results, NanoString
based experiments, histological sections or other experimental data types.
